# Project Title: University Application System (Composed of CLIUniApp and GUIUniApp)

Group: 1 Cmp1 04 1
Team Members: Jinjie Deng (25536246), Ming Sun (2572379), Yuhang Wang (25724574), Shuting Yang (11908922)



## Project Description

Our group's university student management system is developed using two pieces of Python code (CLIUniApp.py and GUIUniApp.py). This university student management system supports the following four functions.

(1)University system operating program based on code command line implementation (CLIUniApp): Students and administrators of the school can enter the student subsystem and administrator subsystem through keyboard input to perform option operations.
(2)A course selection system based on a code implemented graphical interface (GUIUniApp): This graphical interface is only open to student groups, and students can complete their login and course selection operations on the input boxes provided in the Login Window, Enrolment Window, Subject Window, and other windows. When the student's operation does not meet the system requirements, various Exception Windows will automatically pop up to warn and remind the student.
(3)Student and admin subsystems: Student groups can complete operations such as registering email and password, selecting and withdrawing courses, displaying the selected subject list, and changing passwords on their own subsystems. The administrator group can have the permission to browse all student information, delete student letters, group students by grades, classify passing and failing students, and clear the entire database if it is necessary on their own subsystem.
(4)Save data using the ‘students.data’ file：All data loads, updates, and modifications generated by the operations performed by students and administrators in the university student management system will be explained and backed up to a data file called ‘students. Data’, which will be stored as the local database of the university and properly protected for all student information.



## Contribution from Team Members

Yuhang Wang: Responsible for completing the basic creation of three Sample Model Classes: Student, Subject, and Database. Responsible for automatically creating data files in JSON format and implementing data file support for reading, writing, saving, searching, and deleting student data.

Shuting Yang: Responsible for developing the student subsystem and corresponding auxiliary function modules, establishing specific verification rules for the email and password formats entered during the student registration process, ensuring that the student subsystem can automatically generate student IDs, course IDs, calculate student grades and average scores, and provide basic error prompts in case of abnormal input errors by students.

Ming Sun: Responsible for opening up the course selection function module in the student subsystem and the specific functions of the administrator subsystem, ensuring that students can only select up to four courses in the student subsystem, can complete course withdrawal through subject ID, can modify past registered passwords, and can query selected courses and corresponding grades through a list. In the administrator subsystem, he is also responsible for creating the menu of the administrator system, implementing a series of functions such as allowing administrators to browse all student information, grouping and categorizing students by grade level, deleting students by student ID, and clearing the entire database file and confirming permissions.

Jinjie Deng: Responsible for creating the menu of the student subsystem and the main menu of CLIUniApp, and developing the graphical interface of GUIUniApp by calling multiple functional modules of CLIUniApp, ensuring that registered students can smoothly enter credentials to log in on the visual Login Window, complete course selection and withdrawal in the Enrollment Window, change passwords in the Password Window, and clearly browse the specific scores and grade levels of each selected course in the Subject Window.



## File Operation and System Operation Guide

### How to run two code files

The CLIUniApp. py and GUIUniApp. py code files must have the same file storage path in order to run properly in software environments that support Python code, such as Jupyter Notebook and Visual Studio code. At the same time, students must complete the registration process on CLIUniApp and read and store their registered email and password in the local database file students.data before they can log in, select courses, withdraw from courses, check grades, and change passwords on GUIUniApp.
CLI Main Menu Operation Guide
When CLIUniApp. py is successfully run, the main menu will automatically output, with three options: (A) dmin, (S) tudent, or X. After entering options A, you will enter the administrator subsystem, enter S to enter the student subsystem, and enter X to exit the main menu.

### Administrator Subsystem Operation Guide

After entering options A from the CLI main menu and automatically entering the administrator subsystem, there are six options available for input: c, g, p, r, s, and x.
(1)C: Clearing operation of the entire local database file, but will also automatically output a confirmation reminder option.
Y: Means ‘Yes’, is the final confirmation to clear the database
N: Means ‘No’, cancel the clearing.
(2)G: Group all students by their average scores, allowing administrators to understand the grade level of each student.
(3)P: Display the specific situation of distinguishing all students into pass and fail. Only students with an average score of no less than 50 in all four courses can be classified as pass. Therefore, even if the average score of students who have only taken three courses exceeds 50, they can only be classified as fail.
(4)R: Delete model for the administrator to input the student ID to delete student information.
(5)S: Show the names, student IDs, and email addresses of all students who have completed registration.
(6)X: Exit the administrator subsystem.



### Student Subsystem Operation Guide

After entering option S from the CLI main menu and automatically entering the student subsystem, there are three options available for input: l, r and x.
(1)L: Login function, students need to enter their unique email and password to sign in.
(2)R: Registration function, students need to follow the format to sign up their accounts.
(3)X: Exit the student subsystem.
After logging into the student subsystem, there are five options available for input: c, e, r, s and x.
(1)C: Change passwor function, students can change password here.
(2)E: Enrol subject function, students can enrol subjects if they have not enroled 4 subjects.
(3)R: Students can remove subjects that they do not want anymore.
(4)S: Students can view subjects that are chosen by them.
(5)X: Exit the student subsystem.



### GUIUniApp Graphic Window Operation Guide

Entering student email in the email space and password in the password space. Click ‘Login’ button to sign into the system. The ‘Quit’ button is used to close this window and exit.

!\[Login Window](image/login-window.png)

If the email and password are correct, then we will be able to view the score and grade level of each subject.
Use ‘Enrol Subject’ button to enrol new subject if this student have not enroled at least 4 subjects.
Use ‘Open Subject Window’button to details of subjects and scores, levels.

!\[Login Window](image/enrolment-window.png)

Enter Subject ID into space and click ‘Remove’ to remove it.
Use ‘Change Password’ button to change password.

